AstraZeneca PLC said Wednesday that Capivasertib plus Faslodex significantly improved progression-free survival when compared with Faslodex combined with a placebo in a Phase 3 trial in advanced hormone receptor-positive breast cancer.

The Anglo-Swedish pharma giant AZN, +1.77% AZN, +0.56% said the trial met both primary endpoints of improving progression-free survival in the overall patient population and in a prespecified biomarker subgroup of patients whose tumors had qualifying alterations.AstraZeneca Touts Positive Data From Two Experimental Drugs In Breast Cancer SettingsAstraZeneca's Ultomiris Showed Zero Relapses In Patients With Chronic Disorder Of Brain, Spinal CordAstraZeneca (NASDAQ: AZN) announced on Tuesday that its COVID-19 vaccine, Vaxzevria (ChAdOx1-S [Recombinant]) has been given full Marketing Authorisation (MA) in the European Union (EU).

Vaxzevria was originally granted a conditional Marketing Authorisation (cMA) by the EU. AstraZeneca stated, “As there continues to be sufficient evidence of safety and efficacy confirming the benefits of Vaxzevria, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) has now granted a full MA.”

Iskra Reic, EVP, Vaccines and Immune Therapies, AstraZeneca commented, “The move from conditional to full marketing authorisation for Vaxzevria is an important confirmation by the EMA of the safety and efficacy of Vaxzevria, demonstrating that the benefits continue to outweigh the potential risks. Vaxzevria is estimated to have helped save over six million lives in the first year of vaccination, which reflects the strength of the evidence showing Vaxzevria’s protection against severe disease and death caused by COVID-19.”by

The European Medicines Agency (EMA) has granted full Marketing Authorisation to AstraZeneca Plc's AZN COVID-19 vaccine, Vaxzevria (ChAdOx1-S [Recombinant]).

COVID-19 vaccine, Vaxzevria (ChAdOx1-S [Recombinant]). Vaxzevria was initially granted a conditional Marketing Authorisation due to the urgency of the COVID-19 pandemic. As there continues to be sufficient evidence of safety and efficacy confirming the benefits of Vaxzevria, the EMA has now granted full approval.

The approval covers the use of Vaxzevria in both a primary vaccination series and as both a heterologous (with an approved mRNA COVID-19 vaccine) or homologous (all the same vaccine) third-dose booster.

Related: AstraZeneca-Oxford University Partnered Nasal COVID-19 Vaccine Flunks Human Trial.

AstraZeneca-Oxford University Partnered Nasal COVID-19 Vaccine Flunks Human Trial. Vaxzevria has been demonstrated to be effective against all forms of COVID-19, from mild symptomatic to severe disease, including hospitalization and death, according to clinical studies and real-world evidence.

These include an expert review of data from 52 real-world studies that showed that Vaxzevria and the available mRNA COVID-19 vaccines provide equally effective protection against hospitalization and death from COVID-19 following three doses.

There is also a substantial body of evidence supporting boosting with Vaxzevria following all primary vaccination schedules tested to date.

Price Action: AZN shares are up 1.82% at $59.88 during the premarket session on the last check Tuesday.

AZN shares are up 1.82% at $59.88 during the premarket session on the last check Tuesday. Photo by Paul McManus from Pixabay

© 2022 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved.Tesla Shifts China Factory Workers To US Plant, Complete European Approval For AstraZeneca's COVID-19 Shot, Tesla Eyes Cybertruck Commercialization Next Year: Top Stories Tuesday, Nov. 1by

The European Commission has approved AstraZeneca plc AZN and Sanofi SA’s SNY Beyfortus (nirsevimab) long-acting antibody to prevent respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) lower respiratory tract disease in newborns and infants during their first RSV season.

and Beyfortus (nirsevimab) long-acting antibody to prevent respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) lower respiratory tract disease in newborns and infants during their first RSV season. Beyfortus is the first and only single-dose RSV passive immunization for the broad infant population, including those born healthy, at term or preterm, or with specific health conditions.

In the pivotal MELODY efficacy trial, Beyfortus met its primary endpoint of reducing the incidence of medically attended lower respiratory tract infections (LRTI) caused by RSV by 74.5% vs. placebo through day 151 with a single dose.

Beyfortus also demonstrated a comparable safety and tolerability profile to

Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB's BIOVF Synagis (palivizumab) in the MEDLEY Phase 2/3 trial.

Synagis (palivizumab) in the MEDLEY Phase 2/3 trial. Globally, in 2019, there were approximately 33 million cases of acute lower respiratory infections leading to more than three million hospitalizations. It was estimated that there were 26,300 in-hospital deaths of children younger than five years.

Price Action: SNY shares are up 0.61% at $43.10, and AZN shares are up 0.15% at $60.02 during the premarket session on the last check Friday.

© 2022 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved.© Reuters AstraZeneca shares will get lift from heartburn drug litigation closure, says Citi

AZN +0.56% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio LFCOF 0.00% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio A1ZN34 -0.97% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio

AstraZeneca PLC (NASDAQ: ) can get a boost from the probability that it will close out its US kidney damage lawsuit in New Jersey prior to the first bellwether case in March 2023, according to analysts at Citi.

The UK pharma is one of several firms embroiled in US legal action over possible damage caused by proton pump inhibitor (PPI) heartburn drugs such as Nexium, launched by Astra in the US in 2001.

The Citi analysts believe the most likely outcome is that the judge is delaying her response to the Defendant Motion for summary judgement on the grounds of pre-emption, to encourage the plaintiffs to settle.

“Alternatively, but with a lower probability, Judge Cecchi may have delayed the start of the bellwether cases as she disagrees with the conclusions of Special Master Reisman and grants the defendant's motion to dismiss on grounds of pre-emption," they said.

Either scenario would be materially positive to Astra's depressed share price, the US bank's analysts added, as would positive interim DESTINY-Breast06 data with Enhertu at the year-end and positive TROPION-Lung-01 data in March 2023.

The Citi analysts said their 2023 and 2024 core EPS forecasts for Astra are 5% and 17% above consensus and repeated them alongside a price target of £130 and a 'buy' recommendation.

Shares in Astra rose 1% to £103.56.

Read more on Proactive Investors UK

DisclaimerBy Benzinga

The crypto party started as corporate earnings-induced optimism and hopes of a Fed thawing perked up risk appetite in the financial markets. Ethereum (CRYPTO: ETH), the second...Astrazeneca's Beyfortus receives EU approval

AZN +0.56% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio UK100 +2.03% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio

AstraZeneca (NASDAQ: ) stated that Beyfortus was now the first and only single-dose RSV passive immunisation for the broad infant population, including those born healthy, at term or pre-term, or with specific health conditions.

The 100-listed group said the European Commission was the first regulatory body to grant approval to Beyfortus, with the approval based on results from the drug's clinical development programme and follows a recommendation from The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use of the European Medicines Agency in September.

In AZN's "pivotal" MELODY efficacy trial, Beyfortus met its primary endpoint of reducing the incidence of medically attended lower respiratory tract infections caused by RSV by 74.5% versus placebo through day 151 with a single dose.

Iskra Eric, AZN's executive vice president of vaccines and immune therapies, said: "Beyfortus is the first single-dose preventative option against respiratory syncytial virus to gain approval in Europe and is also the first and only preventative option approved for a broad infant population.

"Today's marketing authorisation of Beyfortus marks a significant achievement for the scientific community and addresses a persistent, global unmet need in RSV prevention."

Reporting by Iain Gilbert at Sharecast.com

Read more on Sharecast.com© Reuters. AstraZeneca says Evusheld approved for treatment of COVID-19 in EU

AZN +0.56% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio A1ZN34 -0.97% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio

has said its long-acting antibody combination Evusheld (tixagevimab and cilgavimab, formerly AZD7442) has been approved in the EU for the treatment of COVID-19.

The approval by the European Commission covers people over the age of 12 years who do not require supplemental oxygen and who are at increased risk of progressing to severe COVID‑19, the pharmaceuticals group said.

The European Commission’s approval was based on results from the TACKLE phase III treatment trial which showed that Evusheld significantly reduced the risk of severe COVID-19 or death.

The recommended dose of Evusheld for treatment in Europe is 300mg of tixagevimab and 300mg of cilgavimab, administered as two separate, sequential IM injections, AstraZeneca (NASDAQ: ) noted.

"Many people, including those who are immunocompromised, older adults and those with underlying health conditions, are at high risk of severe disease, hospitalisation and death if they become infected. Evusheld, delivered in a convenient intramuscular formulation, is now a much-needed new COVID-19 treatment option for these vulnerable populations," commented Dr Michel Goldman, professor at the Institute for Interdisciplinary Innovation in Healthcare, Université Libre de Bruxelles, and former executive director of the European Innovative Medicines Initiative in a statement.

Iskra Reic, executive vice president of vaccines and immune therapies at AstraZeneca, added: "COVID-19 remains an ongoing health concern for millions of Europeans and around the world, especially for those who may not be well-protected against the virus from vaccination. With this approval, Evusheld is now the only long-acting antibody combination available for both prevention and treatment of COVID-19 in Europe, allowing us to protect even more people from this devastating disease."

Read more on Proactive Investors UK

Disclaimer© Reuters AstraZeneca gets its third regulatory green light in a matter of weeks for asthma drug

AZN +0.56% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio A1ZN34 -0.97% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio

AstraZeneca PLC (LON: ) said its Tezspire treatment has been approved in Japan for severe bronchial asthma where high-dose traditional corticosteroids don’t work.

It is the third approval in a matter of weeks for the product, a potential challenger to market leader Dupxient. It was developed in collaboration with US giant Amgen (NASDAQ: ).

In clinical trials, the drug was shown to lower what the researchers called ‘asthma exacerbations’ by 56%.

"Tezspire is the first and only biologic approved by the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare that has been shown to consistently and significantly reduce attacks in exacerbation trials in a broad population of severe asthma patients irrespective of biomarker levels,” Mene Pangalos, head of biopharmaceutical research at AZ.

“Tezspire has the potential to improve outcomes for many patients with severe asthma and we are working to make this important medicine available in Japan as quickly as possible.”

Analysts believe Tezspire could be a big seller with peak sales projected to be in the order of US$2.5bn.

Read more on Proactive Investors UK

Disclaimer© Reuters. FILE PHOTO: The company logo for pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca is displayed on a screen on the floor at the New York Stock Exchange, U.S., April 8, 2019. REUTERS/Brendan McDermid/File Photo

AZN +0.56% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio A1ZN34 -0.97% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio

(Reuters) - Shares of LogicBio Therapeutics skyrocketed on Monday after Britain's AstraZeneca (NASDAQ: )'s said it would buy the U.S.-based gene therapy developer at a rare 660% premium for $68 million.

LoigBio's shares, which have traded below $1 since February, were up 637% at $2 before the bell, close to AstraZeneca's offer price of $2.07 per share.

LogicBio is developing gene editing therapies to treat pediatric rare disease like methylmalonic acidemia, where the body cannot break down certain proteins and fats.

AstraZeneca said the deal would accelerate growth of its Alexion (NASDAQ: ) unit, which it acquired for $39 billion last year, in the field of genomic medicine.By Benzinga

The crypto party started as corporate earnings-induced optimism and hopes of a Fed thawing perked up risk appetite in the financial markets. Ethereum (CRYPTO: ETH), the second...© Reuters AstraZeneca says Imjudo-Imfinzi combination approved for advanced liver cancer in US

AZN +0.56% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio A1ZN34 -0.97% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio

AstraZeneca PLC (LON: ) announced that the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved the company's Imjudo (tremelimumab) drug in combination with Imfinzi (durvalumab) for treatment of adult patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), the most common type of liver cancer.

The approval is based on results from the HIMALAYA Phase III trial, which showed that a single priming dose of the anti-CTLA-4 antibody Imjudo added to the anti-PD-L1 antibody Imfinzi reduced the risk of death by 22% compared with sorafenib, the pharmaceuticals company said.

Liver cancer is the third-leading cause of cancer death and the sixth most commonly diagnosed cancer worldwide. It is the fastest-rising cause of cancer-related deaths in the US, with approximately 36,000 new diagnoses each year, the 100-listed company said.

In a statement, Dave Fredrickson, executive vice president, oncology business unit at AstraZeneca, commented: "With this first regulatory approval for Imjudo, patients with unresectable liver cancer in the US now have an approved dual immunotherapy treatment regimen that harnesses the potential of CTLA-4 inhibition in a unique combination with a PD-L1 inhibitor to enhance the immune response against their cancer."

Dr Ghassan Abou-Alfa, attending physician at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center (MSK), and principal investigator in the HIMALAYA Phase III trial, said: "Patients with unresectable liver cancer are in need of well-tolerated treatments that can meaningfully extend overall survival. In addition to this regimen demonstrating a favourable three-year survival rate in the HIMALAYA trial, safety data showed no increase in severe liver toxicity or bleeding risk for the combination, important factors for patients with liver cancer who also have advanced liver disease."

Regulatory applications for Imjudo in combination with Imfinzi are currently under review in Europe, Japan and several other countries for the treatment of patients with advanced liver cancer based on the HIMALAYA results, AstraZeneca said.

Read more on Proactive Investors UK

Disclaimer© Reuters. AstraZeneca-Merck's Prostate Cancer Combo Drug, 3rd Try For scPharma, 3 FDA Panel Decisions And More: October's Key PDUFA Catalysts Biotech Investors Must Know

AZN +0.56% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio IXIC +1.28% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio KECR +3.15% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio A1ZN34 -0.97% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio

Most FDA decisions scheduled for September yielded positive results, but there were stray disappointments as well. Seven new molecular entities, or NMEs, were approved during the month, taking the total NME approvals for the year to 24. This is far less than the 40 approvals received by the same time last year.

NMEs are considered a measure of innovation in drug research, as they contain active moieties or ingredients that haven’t been previously approved by the Food and Drug Administration.

Among the positive verdicts, bluebird bio, Inc.’s (NASDAQ: BLUE) $3 million gene therapy Skysona was approved for treating a rare neurodegenerative disorder in boys and Amylyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NASDAQ: AMLX) scored a win for its amyotrophic sclerosis treatment Revance Therapeutics, Inc.’s (NASDAQ: RVNC) Botox rival Daxxify was approved for treating frown lines.

Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NASDAQ: SPPI) had a mixed month, as its Rolvedon was approved for treating chemotherapy-induced neutropenia, but its lung cancer drug did not get the backing of an FDA panel.

Here are the key PDUFA dates scheduled for October:

Will Theratech Score A Win For A More Convenient Formulation Of Its HIV Drug? Company: Theratechnologies, Inc. (NASDAQ: THTX)

Type of Application: supplemental biologic license application

Candidate: Trogarzo

Indication: HIV-1

Date: Oct. 3

In the fourth quarter of 2021, the company filed the sBLA for intravenous push mode of administration of its Trogarzo for treating human immunodeficiency virus type 1, or HIV-1. Trogarzo was first approved by the FDA in March 2018 to treat adult patients with multidrug-resistant HIV. In the quarter that ended on May 31, the drug generated sales of $7.852 million for Theratech.

Alnylam On Course For Snagging Label Expansion For Oxlumo? Company: Alnylam, Inc. (NASDAQ: ALNY)

Type of Application: supplemental new drug application

Candidate: Oxlumo

Indication: hyperoxaluria Type 1

Date: Oct. 6

Oxlumo, which goes by the generic name lumasiran, an RNAi therapeutic, is being evaluated for the reduction of plasma oxalate in patients with advanced hyperoxaluria type 1 – a rare disorder that mainly affects the kidneys due to the accumulation of a substance called oxalate, which is normally filtered through the kidneys and excreted in the urine.

This therapy was first approved in 2020 for lowering urinary oxalate labels in pediatric and adult patients. In the second quarter, it fetched the company $15 million in sales, down only 2% sequentially.

See also: Alzheimer's Progression Slowed Down By Biogen (NASDAQ: )'s New Drug In Late-Stage Study: Analyst Sees 25%

Can Third Time Be Charm For scPharma Company: scPharmaceuticals, Inc. (NASDAQ: SCPH)

Type of Application: NDA

Candidate: Furoscix

Indication: worsening heart failure due to congestion

Date: Oct. 8

Furoscix is a proprietary, subcutaneously-delivered furosemide solution, that is being evaluated as an outpatient alternative for the treatment of worsening congestive heart failure. This is scPharma's third try for Furoscix following a complete response letter in 2018 and 2020.

’Go’ or ‘no-Go’ for Amicus’s Pome Disease Treatment? Company: Amicus Therapeutics, Inc. (NASDAQ: FOLD)

Type of Application: BLA

Candidate: cipaglucosidase alfa

Indication: Pompe disease

Date: Oct. 29

AT-GAA is an investigational 2-component therapy that consists of cipaglucosidase alfa, administered in conjunction with miglustat, which is yet to be approved by the FDA. The 2-component therapy is being evaluated for an inherited lysosomal disorder called Pome disease.

The disease can be debilitating and is characterized by severe muscle weakness that worsens over time. It ranges from a rapidly fatal infantile form with significant impacts on heart function to a more slowly progressive, late-onset form primarily affecting skeletal muscle. It is estimated that Pompe disease affects approximately 5,000 to 10,000 people worldwide.

Supernus Hopes For No Hiccups In Parkinson Disease Drug Approval Company: Supernus Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NASDAQ: SUPN)

Type of Application: NDA

Candidate: apomorphine infusion device (SPN-830)

Indication: OFF episodes in Parkinson’s disease

Date: Early October

Supernus’s initial application seeking approval for SPN-830 was shot down with a refuse-to-file letter in November 2020, citing an insufficiently completed application to allow a substantiative review. Following a resubmission, the FDA accepted the application and assigned a PDUFA date sometime in early October.

Also read: Best Biotech Stocks Right Now

AstraZeneca (NASDAQ: ) Knocks At FDA Altar For Liver Cancer Combo Treatment Company: AstraZeneca, plc. (NASDAQ: AZN)

Type of Application: BLA/sBLA

Candidate: Tremelimumab + Imfinzi

Indication: Unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma

Date: Q4

The FDA accepted AstraZeneca’s BLA for tremelimumab for priority review, supporting the indication of a single priming dose of the anti-CTLA4 antibody added to Imfinzi, for treating patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma. A sBLA has also been submitted for Imfinzi for the indication.

This novel dose and schedule of the combination is called the STRIDE regimen - Single Tremelimumab Regular Interval Durvalumab. HCC, according to the company, is the most common type of liver cancer, and about 26,000 people in the U.S. are afflicted by advanced, unresectable HCC each year.

Merck-AstraZeneca Await Approval For Prostate Cancer Como Therapy Company: Merck & Co., Inc. (NYSE: MRK) & AstraZeneca

Type of Application: sNDA

Candidate: Lynparza in combination with Abiraterone and Prednisone or Prednisolone

Indication: prostate cancer

Date: Q4

The application was accepted and granted priority review by the FDA for the treatment of adult patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer.

Adcom Calendar:

FDA’s Cardiovascular and Renal Drugs Advisory Committee will meet on Oct. 26 to discuss GlaxoSmithKline plc’s (NYSE: GSK) NDA for hypoxia-inducible factor prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor daprodustat tablets as a treatment option for anemia resulting from chronic kidney disease.

The Oncologic Drugs Advisory Committee is scheduled to meet on Oct. 28 to discuss the BLA submitted by Y-mAbs Therapeutics, Inc. (NASDAQ: YMAB) for its 1311-omburtamab solution, injectable formulation, for treating neuroblastoma with central nervous system/leptomeningeal metastases.

On Oct. 31, the Endocrinologic and Metabolic Drugs Advisory Committee will deliberate on Ispen S.A.’s(OTC: IPSEY) palovarotene capsules for the proposed indication of heterotopic ossification in adults and children. It is a condition in which muscle tissue and connective tissue such as tendons and ligaments are gradually replaced by bones.

© 2022 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved.

Read the original article on Benzinga© Reuters. FILE PHOTO: Pascal Soriot, chief executive of pharmaceuticals company AstraZeneca, attends an interview with Reuters in Shanghai, China, November 4, 2019. REUTERS/Brenda Goh/File Photo

AZN +0.56% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio A1ZN34 -0.97% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio

By Aimee Donnellan and Natalie Grover

LONDON (Reuters) - AstraZeneca (NASDAQ: ) may not stay in the vaccine business in the long run, its CEO told Reuters on Tuesday, showing how quickly fortunes have changed for the drugmaker that produced one of the first COVID-19 shots but has since lost out to rivals. Production delays, probes by regulators following rare cases of severe side effects, and concerns about its relatively short shelf life compared with other shots have stymied adoption of the company's COVID-19 vaccine.

Now, in the third year of the pandemic amid a global vaccine supply glut, its use has diminished in much of the developed world as countries have inoculated large numbers of people and prefer Pfizer (NYSE: ) and Moderna (NASDAQ: )'s mRNA vaccines as boosters.

AstraZeneca's COVID vaccine has still not won U.S. approval.

The London-listed company is building on its portfolio of antibody therapies, including for COVID-19, the respiratory virus RSV and other viruses, Soriot said in a Reuters Newsmaker interview on Tuesday.

But on the future of its COVID vaccines business, he said: "I can't be sure we will be there or not."

He also said he wasn't sure if AstraZeneca would broaden its roster of vaccines for other infections either, adding that the company was looking into it.

Investors have speculated about the future of the vaccine business given slowing sales of the COVID shot as initial sales contracts have been fulfilled, stiff competition from mRNA vaccines and its relatively little expertise in the field.

The company created a separate division for vaccines and antibody therapies late last year.

Still, Soriot said he did not regret the company's work with Oxford University to develop a COVID vaccine, given they had delivered billions of doses and saved an estimated 6 million lives across the globe.

The inoculation was AstraZeneca's second best-selling product in 2021 with sales of $3.9 billion.

AstraZeneca is also looking for bolt-on acquisitions, including small and mid-sized companies specialising in oncology and cardiovascular treatments, Soriot added.

"We always look for external opportunities," he said.

KEEP ON DOING THIS JOB

The CEO has presided over a quadrupling of AstraZeneca's share price in his decade at the helm.

"I can keep doing this job for many years," he said.

The 63-year old was once seen as a natural successor to outgoing Chairman Leif Johansson.

But in July, Soriot quashed speculation he was planning to retire any time soon, saying he expected to work with the company's newly announced chairman-designate Michel Demare for many years to come.

Soriot was tasked with turning around a troubled AstraZeneca - hit by a string of key patent losses and a spate of clinical trial failures - in October 2012, following a stint at pharma peer Roche.

With the Frenchman at the helm, the fortunes of the Anglo-Swedish drugmaker changed dramatically.

He sharpened focus on speciality medicines and the lucrative field of oncology, made acquisitions to refill the company's medicine cabinet, fended off a hostile takeover from U.S. pharma giant Pfizer, and invested heavily in R&D to improve the company's lacklustre drug development success rate.

However, he warned on Tuesday that fewer new medicines would be developed going forward due to U.S. drug price laws passed last week.

Asked about inflationary pressures, Soriot said: "We are going to have to become more innovative and productive. We can't expect our selling prices to go up."

Sales in China, which account for close to a fifth of the company's total annual revenue, have dipped in recent quarters due to lower drug prices and as COVID lockdown measures kept some patients from being diagnosed and seeking cancer care.

On Tuesday, Soriot said sales were picking up in the third quarter in the world's second-largest market for pharmaceuticals - and he expected the country to play a more significant role in the global market over the next decade.

Graphic: AstraZeneca's shares while CEO Soriot has been at the helm https://fingfx.thomsonreuters.com/gfx/mkt/zjvqkblqgvx/AZ.PNG© Reuters. People pose with syringe with needle in front of displayed AstraZeneca logo in this illustration taken, December 11, 2021. REUTERS/Dado Ruvic/Illustration/Files

AZN +0.56% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio A1ZN34 -0.97% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio

By Pushkala Aripaka and Natalie Grover

LONDON (Reuters) -Europe's medicines regulator has backed using AstraZeneca (NASDAQ: )'s preventative COVID-19 therapy as a treatment for the disease and also endorsed another medicine as preventative option for another common virus.

The regulator's recommendations are usually followed by the European Commission when it takes a final decision on drug approvals.

AstraZeneca said on Friday the European Medicines Agency (EMA) had backed Evusheld as a treatment for adults and adolescents with COVID who do not need supplemental oxygen and who are at increased risk of their disease worsening.

Last month, Japan became the first country to approve the long-acting antibody as a treatment for COVID - making Evusheld the first such therapy authorised for both prevention and treatment of the viral disease.

Evusheld had previously had largely secured global approvals, including in Europe, as a preventative therapy for people with compromised immune systems who see little or no benefit from COVID vaccines.

AstraZeneca is leaning on Evusheld to help offset tepid sales of its COVID vaccine that has rapidly lost ground to mRNA shots in the fight against the rapidly evolving virus.

Evusheld, first launched in December, generated $914 million in the first half of 2022 for the Anglo-Swedish drugmaker.

Separately on Friday, the EMA also endorsed AstraZeneca and partner Sanofi (EPA: )'s experimental long-acting therapy Beyfortus for the prevention of lower respiratory tract infections caused by respiratory syncytial virus (RSV).

RSV causes thousands of hospitalisations and deaths globally each year in toddlers and the elderly, but the complex molecular structure of the virus and safety concerns have stymied efforts to develop a vaccine since the virus was first discovered in 1956.

But there is one therapy, Synagis, also developed by AstraZeneca but sold by Swedish Orphan Biovitrum in the United States.

It is designed to prevent lower respiratory tract infections caused by RSV in high-risk infants and requires up to five injections to cover a typical RSV season.

Meanwhile, if Beyfortus were approved, it would be the first single-dose preventative RSV therapy for the broad infant population - including those born healthy or are deemed high-risk - during their first RSV season.© Reuters. FILE PHOTO: The company logo for pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca is displayed on a screen on the floor at the New York Stock Exchange, U.S., April 8, 2019. REUTERS/Brendan McDermid

AZN +0.56% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio

(Reuters) - said on Friday its drug for preventing infant RSV, Beyfortus (nirsevimab), was recommended for approval in the European Union by a European Medicines Agency committee.

The drugmaker also said if Beyfortus is approved, it would become the first protective option for newborn and infant population against RSV lower respiratory tract disease.© Reuters. Market movers: Property groups fall as Goldman/JPMorgan reduce price targets

FDX +1.12% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio AZN +0.56% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio BLND +1.60% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio IDSI +3.67% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio TGTB34 0.00% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio

Shares in Land Securities and British Land fell today after both property groups were downgraded by Goldman Sachs (NYSE: ), while JP Morgan lowered its price targets on both companies.

Goldman Sachs downgraded British Land to neutral from buy and reduced its price

target to 410p from 580p, while JPMorgan (NYSE: ) cut its price target to 530p from 700p but retained its overweight rating.

On Land Securities, Goldman Sachs lowered its rating to sell from neutral and cut its price target to 500p from 650p, while JPMorgan retained its neutral rating but with a lower price target of 650p down from 900p.

Land Securities fell 2.7% and British Land fell 0.7%.

Capita lifted by double dose of good news

Shares in advanced after it reported a contract extension with Barnet Council and the disposal of its subsidiary Pay360 Ltd to Access PaySuite.

Shares in the outsourcing services group rose 6.6% after securing the contract extension with the north London council that is worth £42.7mln, although with indexation and potential additional work it could be worth up to £57mln.

Separately, Capita said it agreed to dispose of Pay360 to the division of Access Group for £150mln on a cash-free, debt-free basis.

Capita said the sale will help reduce its debt, provide additional liquidity, and allow it to enhance its digital offerings for clients and build a more focused and sustainable business for the long term.

Royal Mail falls after FedEx warning

Shares in dipped today following the profits warning by US peer pulled its full year guidance after warning that first quarter profits would miss estimates as a global demand slowdown accelerates.

It cited "macroeconomic weakness" in Asia and "service challenges" in Europe.

Investors took the view that industry challenges would be the same for Royal Mail which also faces the prospect of more industrial action as employees strike over higher pay.

Royal Mail workers represented by the Communication Workers Union (CWU) had planned a walkout on 9 September 2022 but are now planning to strike on September 30 and October 1 2022.

Shares fell 10.5% to 223.5p.

EU drug approvals boost AstraZeneca (NASDAQ: )

was a rare riser in the after it said today it had received two recommendations for drug approvals in the EU, while a drug for blood disorder paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria met its primary endpoint in a phase three trial.

The group said its Beyfortus drug, which it develops with Sanofi (EPA: ). for the prevention of lower respiratory tract disease in newborns and infants has been recommended for marketing authorisation in the European Union

Meanwhile, AstraZeneca's Evusheld Covid antibody treatment has been recommended for marketing authorisation in the EU for adults with the virus at risk of progressing to severe disease.

The company explained phase III treatment data showed reduced risk of severe Covid or death.

Shares rose 1.7% following the news.

Read more on Proactive Investors UK

DisclaimerBy Benzinga

The crypto party started as corporate earnings-induced optimism and hopes of a Fed thawing perked up risk appetite in the financial markets. Ethereum (CRYPTO: ETH), the second...3/3 © Reuters. FILE PHOTO: Tablet bottles for AstraZeneca's cancer medicine Lynparza seen in an undated handout image provided to Reuters on June 27, 2022. AstraZeneca/Handout via REUTERS 2/3

AZN +0.56% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio A1ZN34 -0.97% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio

(Reuters) - AstraZeneca (NASDAQ: ) said on Thursday its drug Lynparza, developed with U.S.-based Merck & Co, was approved by the European Union as an adjuvant treatment for patients with a form of a genetically mutated early-stage breast cancer.© Reuters Daily Biotech Pulse: Celyad Resumes Colorectal Cancer Trial, Setback For Otonomy, AstraZeneca Halts Phase 3 Head, Neck Cancer Trial

AZN +0.56% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio IXIC +1.28% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio OTIC -2.81% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio BEAM -2.75% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio A1ZN34 -0.97% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio

Here's a roundup of top developments in the biotech space over the last 24 hours:

Stocks In Focus Arcutis Psoriasis Treatment Scores FDA Approval The FDA approved Arcutis Biotherapeutics Inc's (NASDAQ: ARQT) Zoryve (roflumilast) cream 0.3% for plaque psoriasis, including intertriginous areas, in patients 12 years of age or older.

It is the first and only topical phosphodiesterase-4 inhibitor approved for plaque psoriasis.

The commercial product is expected to be available by mid-August.

Arcutis expects to draw an additional $125 million from the company's debt facility with SLR Capital Partners.

Shares are up 3.05% at $25 during the premarket session.

FDA Removes Clinical Hold On Celyad's Colorectal Cancer Trial The FDA has lifted the clinical hold on Celyad Oncology SA's (NASDAQ: CYAD) CYAD-101-002 (KEYNOTE-B79) Phase 1b trial after the company made changes to the eligibility criteria for the trial.

In February, the company voluntarily paused the CYAD-101-002 trial to investigate reports of two fatalities in the study.

The FDA subsequently put the trial on clinical hold in March.

Shares are up 40.9% at $2.41 during the premarket session.

HUTCHMED Starts Midstage Tazemetostat Study For Lymphoma Setting HUTCHMED (China) Limited (NASDAQ: HCM) initiated a bridging Phase 2 study of tazemetostat in China for relapsed/refractory follicular lymphoma (R/R FL).

The first patient received their first dose on July 29.

The primary objective is to evaluate the efficacy of tazemetostat in R/R FL patients with mutations in EZH21 (Cohort 1).

The secondary objectives are to evaluate the efficacy of tazemetostat for R/R FL with EZH2 wild-type.

Related: Biotech Investors: August's Key PDUFA Catalysts You Must Know.

FDA Signs Off On Eledon Pharma's Tegoprubart For Kidnety Transplant Rejection The FDA has cleared Eledon Pharmaceuticals Inc's (NASDAQ: ELDN) Investigational New Drug (IND) application to evaluate tegoprubart for preventing organ rejection in patients receiving a kidney transplant.

The IND-opening phase 2 study will enroll approximately 120 participants undergoing a kidney transplant.

Kazia Shares Fall After Update From Pivotal Brain Tumor Trial Kazia Therapeutics Limited (NASDAQ: KZIA) said GBM AGILE, a pivotal study for paxalisib in newly diagnosed glioblastoma, did not meet pre-defined criteria for continuing to a second stage.

Patients enrolled in the first stage of the paxalisib arm will continue on treatment as per protocol, and in follow-up, until completion of the final analysis, which Kazia anticipates receiving in the second half of 2023.

The company will not open the study's paxalisib arm in Germany or China.

Shares are down 38.3% at $2.24 during the premarket session.

FDA Places Clinical Hold On Beam Therapeutics' IND Application For Blood Cancer Study The FDA has placed a clinical hold on Beam Therapeutics Inc's (NASDAQ: BEAM) BEAM-201 Investigational New Drug (IND) application for relapsed/refractory T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia/T cell lymphoblastic lymphoma.

The BEAM-201 IND was submitted at the end of June. The FDA indicated it would provide Beam with an official clinical hold letter within 30 days. Beam plans to provide additional updates pending discussion with the FDA.

Otonomy Shares Sink After Stopping Midstage Tinnitus Study Otonomy Inc (NASDAQ: OTIC) has announced that the OTO-313 Phase 2 trial in tinnitus demonstrated no clinically meaningful benefit versus placebo for primary and secondary endpoints across all time points.

The 153-subject study did show a higher response rate than placebo in a prospectively defined patient subgroup with tinnitus duration of fewer than six months (population studied in Phase 1/2 trial).

The overall results do not support further development of OTO-313.

Shares are slipping 60.8% at 56 cents during the premarket session.

AstraZeneca (NASDAQ: ) Cuts Innate-Partnered Phase 3 Trial In Head, Neck Cancer Innate Pharma SA's (NASDAQ: IPHA) futility interim analysis of the INTERLINK-1 Phase 3 study sponsored by AstraZeneca Plc (NASDAQ: AZN) did not meet a pre-defined threshold for efficacy.

Based on this result and the recommendation of an Independent Data Monitoring Committee, AstraZeneca has informed Innate that the study will be discontinued.

There were no new safety findings. AstraZeneca plans to share the data in due course.

IPHA shares are down 16.3% at $2.68 during the premarket session.

ALX Oncology's Evorpacept Fast Tracked In US For Head, Neck Cancer The FDA has granted Fast Track designation to ALX Oncology Holdings Inc's (NASDAQ: ALXO) evorpacept in combination with Merck & Co Inc's (NYSE: MRK) Keytruda for the first-line treatment of PD-L1 positive advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.

The FDA's decision is informed by the results of ALX Oncology's phase 1 study that showed preliminary antitumor activity and a favorable safety profile.

Shares are up 5.48% at $10.26 during the premarket session.

Offerings TherapeuticsMD Inc (NASDAQ: TXMD) has received a $15-million private investment in the company's common stock and a new series of preferred stock from Rubric Capital Management LP.

On The Radar Earnings Cerevel Therapeutics Holdings Inc (NASDAQ: CERE): Before the market open.

© 2022 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved.

Read at Benzinga

Read the original article on Benzinga© Reuters

EUR/USD +2.12% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio UK100 +2.03% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio XAU/USD +3.17% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio FCHI +2.77% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio DE30 +2.51% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio HNKG_p +1.07% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio AZN +0.56% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio Gold +3.36% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio LCO +4.31% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio CL +5.02% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio AZN +1.77% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio 2222 -0.29% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio

By Peter Nurse

Investing.com - European stock markets largely edged higher Monday, starting the new week on a cautious note as investors digested weak Chinese economic data.

By 04:15 ET (08:15 GMT), the in Germany traded 0.1% lower, but the in France rose 0.2%, and U.K.’s traded 0.2% higher.

Economic data released earlier Monday showed China’s economic growth rate unexpectedly slowing in July, prompting the country’s central bank to in a surprise move.

grew 3.8% in July from a year earlier, with the growth rate below the 4.6% increase expected, while rose 2.7% from a year ago, missing forecasts for 5.0% growth and the 3.1% growth seen in June.

China's economy, the world’s second largest, is struggling to shake off the June quarter's hit to growth from strict COVID restrictions.

On the flip side, back in Europe, Denmark’s economy grew faster than expected in the second quarter, expanding 0.7% from the first three months of the year, after contracted 0.5% in the first quarter of 2022.

The raised interest rates by a half-point in July and is expected to do the same in September, even though the risk of a Eurozone recession has reached the highest level since November 2020 as energy shortages threaten to drive already record inflation higher still.

In corporate news, AstraZeneca (LON: ) (NASDAQ: ) stock rose 2.6% after the drugmaker said its cancer drug, Enhertu, delayed the progression of a form of advanced breast cancer in previously treated patients, boosting prospects of more regulatory approvals.

Henkel (ETR: ) stock rose 0.4% after the German consumer-goods company said sales rose in the first half of the year but that earnings fell, hurt by increasing raw-material and logistics prices.

Oil prices fell Monday, weighed by a potential increase in supply by oil giant Saudi Aramco (TADAWUL: ) as well as concerns of slowing growth in China, the world's second-largest economy.

Saudi Aramco stands ready to raise crude oil output to its maximum capacity of 12 million barrels per day if requested to do so by the Saudi Arabian government, Chief Executive Amin Nasser said Sunday, as the state-owned energy firm announced one of the largest quarterly profits in history.

By 04:15 ET, futures traded 1.9% lower at $90.39 a barrel, while the contract fell 1.7% to $96.49.

Additionally, fell 0.7% to $1,802.15/oz, while traded 0.3% lower at 1.0229.© Reuters. FILE PHOTO: Signage is seen outside the entrance of the London Stock Exchange in London, Britain. Aug 23, 2018. REUTERS/Peter Nicholls/File Photo

UK100 +2.03% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio AZN +0.56% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio FTSE +2.03% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio A1ZN34 -0.97% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio ENRY +2.33% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio

By Sruthi Shankar

(Reuters) -UK's edged up on Monday as gains in drugmaker AstraZeneca (NASDAQ: ) and consumer stocks relieved pressure from mining and oil heavyweights after data showed China's economy unexpectedly slowed last month.

The blue-chip FTSE 100 added 0.2% to hold near 10-week highs, while the midcap inched up 0.1%.

Investors are awaiting the UK employment report as well as consumer prices data later this week to gauge the state of the labour market and inflation.

The data could offer clues on whether the Bank of England opts for a second consecutive 50-basis-point-rate hike at its September meeting.

The mood was dull in Asian and European stock markets, with investors turning to defensive sectors such as healthcare and consumer staples amid worries about the health of the world's second-largest economy.

AstraZeneca gained 2.6% after the drugmaker said its cancer drug, Enhertu, developed with Japan's Daiichi Sankyo delayed the progression of a form of advanced breast cancer in previously treated patients.

Oil major Shell (LON: ) and miners Rio Tinto (LON: ) and Anglo American (LON: ) slipped, in tandem with weaker commodity prices, after the release of the China data. [O/R] [MET/L]

The FTSE 100 has outperformed its global peers this year due to its large exposure to commodity stocks that have surged on the back of a jump in oil and metal prices. A weakening pound has also boosted dollar earners in the index.

"Whether this trend will continue ultimately hinges on the outlook for global energy stocks relative to the broad market," BCA Research analysts wrote in a note.

The FTSE 100 is up nearly 2% so far this year, while the MSCI world equities index has shed almost 13%.

"Our energy strategists remain bullish on oil. Their expectation that will breach $110/bbl in Q4 and average $117/bbl in 2023 suggests that an overweight on the energy sector – and by extension UK equities – remains appropriate."© Reuters. FTSE 100 positive but off early highs

UK100 +2.03% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio DJI +1.26% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio AZN +0.56% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio BWY +2.01% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio BDEV +2.42% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio TW +3.38% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio FTMC +1.28% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio PHNX +1.47% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio IXIC +1.28% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio FTSE +2.03% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio AZN +1.77% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio CHNA +0.00% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio

slips back after making a bright start

Chinese retail sales, output numbers below forecast

UK house prices fall in August - Rightmove

FTSE 100 failed to hold strong early gains and slipped back close to parity as disappointing economic data in China took the shine off further gains in the US on Friday.

At 9.00am the lead index was trading 11.42 points to the good at 7,512.31.

Richard Hunter, head of markets at interactive investor, said “Economic news from China threatened to spoil the party after US markets staged a strong rally at the end of last week.”

“Amid geopolitical tensions as a delegation of US lawmakers arrive for a further trip to Taiwan, Chinese economic data revealed the ongoing impact of Covid-19 lockdowns and an escalating property crisis.”

“Retail sales and industrial output both rose, but by less than expected in July, alongside a disappointing showing from bank lending.”

But he said “the UK market chose to take its lead from Wall Street, notwithstanding the fact that the Bank of England is set to maintain its aggressive interest rate stance in the face of persistent inflation in the UK.”

AstraZeneca PLC (LSE:NASDAQ: ) shares rose 2.1% to 10,931p as the pharmaceuticals group said that positive high-level results from a new trial of its Enhertu breast cancer drug had demonstrated a "statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvement" in progression-free survival.

AstraZeneca said the DESTINY-Breast02 Phase III trial on Enhertu, jointly developed and commercialised with Daiichi Sankyo, also met its key secondary endpoint of improved overall survival.

But housebuilders, Berkeley Group Holdings PLC (LSE:BKG) (down 1.35%), Bellway (LON: ) (down 1%), Taylor Wimpey (LON: ) (down 0.5%) and Barratt Developments (LON: ) (down 0.5%) all fell following a report from Rightmove that house prices slipped in August.8.15am: Positive start to proceedings in London

8.15am: London upbeat in early trading

FTSE 100 makes a positive start to trading boosted by gains in the US on Friday and despite mixed performances in Asia overnight following disappointing Chinese retail sales and industrial output figures.

At 8.15am the lead index was trading 35.03 points higher at 7,535.92 with the broader up 47.07 points at 20.386.03.

Latest data from online property website Rightmove showed the first fall in UK house prices this year with the average price of property coming to market down to £365,173 – down 1.3%.

However, Tim Bannister, Rightmove’s director of property science, says: “A drop in asking prices is to be expected this month after a frenzied two years and many would-be home movers become distracted by the summer holidays.”

“Indeed, for those that can, this may be their first summer holiday abroad since before the pandemic.”

Bannister also pointed out that price growth for the year would still be 7%.

The number of properties currently on the market to buy is down 39% on pre-pandemic levels but despite the lack of instructions new listings rose 12% compared to the same time last year but were down 6% compared to 2019.

Bannister also said the recent interest rate increases by the Bank of England were “not having a significant impact on the number of people wanting to move.”

7.30am: FTSE 100 seen higher

London markets are expected to open higher on Monday following gains in the US on Friday and following the surprise news that China has cut a key interest rate, in a bid to boost its stuttering economy, following weaker than expected retail sales and industrial output figures.

Investors will also have one eye on UK jobs and inflation reports due out later this week to see whether there are signs of a slowdown in the jobs market or in prices growth.

Spread betting companies are calling the FTSE 100 up by around 35 points.

Michael Hewson chief market analyst at CMC Markets UK said: “Despite the slow drip feed of negative headlines of rising gas prices, and the supply chain challenges thrown up by the heatwave in Europe, there’s been little appetite to drive stocks lower in recent weeks.”

“Asia markets have got off to a positive start to the week, with the latest retail sales and industrial production numbers for China showing an economy that still appears low on confidence when it comes to consumer spending, and economic activity more broadly.”

“This weakness in the Chinese economy comes against the struggle to adapt to a zero-covid policy, which the government shows little sign of relaxing, against a backdrop of rising cases.”

“Problems in the property sector also aren’t helping, where many home buyers are halting mortgage payments in protest at delays to the completion of new homes.”

“In June we saw the effects the zero-covid policy has had on the Chinese economy, with a -2.6% contraction for Q2, although we have started to see some signs of a pick-up in economic activity, albeit from a very low base.”

“This morning’s retail sales numbers for July have confirmed how fragile this confidence still is, rising 2.7% well below expectations of 5%, and weaker than in June.”

“Industrial production has been more robust and recovered much better, however even here economic activity disappointed in July, slipping back from 3.9% in June, to 3.8%.”

In London, on a quieter day for company results, Phoenix Group announced half year figures which showed strong cash generation of £950mln against £872mln in the six months to June 2021.

The FTSE 100-listed closed book life insurer, said it was now confident of delivering at the top-end of its £1.3bn-to-£1.4bn target range for the year.

New business long-term cash generation was a record £430mln in the period and more than double the first half of 2021 at £206mln.

7.00am: FTSE 100 set to open higher

FTSE 100 set to start the week in positive fashion following gains in the US on Friday.

Spread betting companies are calling the blue chip index up by around 32 points.

The closed Friday up 424 points, 1.3%, at 33,761, the jumped 267 points, 2.1%, to 13,047 and the S&P 500 added 73 points, 1.7%, to reach 4,280.

The benchmarks ended the week on a high note, clinching the fourth-straight winning week for the Nasdaq Composite and S&P 500. Investors have reacted positively to CPI and PPI data released this week that suggested inflation may have already peaked.

Read more on Proactive Investors UK

Disclaimer© Reuters. FTSE 100 positive but off early highs

UK100 +2.03% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio DJI +1.26% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio AZN +0.56% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio BWY +2.01% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio BDEV +2.42% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio TW +3.38% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio FTMC +1.28% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio PHNX +1.47% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio IXIC +1.28% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio FTSE +2.03% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio AZN +1.77% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio CHNA +0.00% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio

slips back after making a bright start

Chinese retail sales, output numbers below forecast

UK house prices fall in August - Rightmove

FTSE 100 failed to hold strong early gains and slipped back close to parity as disappointing economic data in China took the shine off further gains in the US on Friday.

At 9.00am the lead index was trading 11.42 points to the good at 7,512.31.

Richard Hunter, head of markets at interactive investor, said “Economic news from China threatened to spoil the party after US markets staged a strong rally at the end of last week.”

“Amid geopolitical tensions as a delegation of US lawmakers arrive for a further trip to Taiwan, Chinese economic data revealed the ongoing impact of Covid-19 lockdowns and an escalating property crisis.”

“Retail sales and industrial output both rose, but by less than expected in July, alongside a disappointing showing from bank lending.”

But he said “the UK market chose to take its lead from Wall Street, notwithstanding the fact that the Bank of England is set to maintain its aggressive interest rate stance in the face of persistent inflation in the UK.”

AstraZeneca PLC (LSE:NASDAQ: ) shares rose 2.1% to 10,931p as the pharmaceuticals group said that positive high-level results from a new trial of its Enhertu breast cancer drug had demonstrated a "statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvement" in progression-free survival.

AstraZeneca said the DESTINY-Breast02 Phase III trial on Enhertu, jointly developed and commercialised with Daiichi Sankyo, also met its key secondary endpoint of improved overall survival.

But housebuilders, Berkeley Group Holdings PLC (LSE:BKG) (down 1.35%), Bellway (LON: ) (down 1%), Taylor Wimpey (LON: ) (down 0.5%) and Barratt Developments (LON: ) (down 0.5%) all fell following a report from Rightmove that house prices slipped in August.8.15am: Positive start to proceedings in London

8.15am: London upbeat in early trading

FTSE 100 makes a positive start to trading boosted by gains in the US on Friday and despite mixed performances in Asia overnight following disappointing Chinese retail sales and industrial output figures.

At 8.15am the lead index was trading 35.03 points higher at 7,535.92 with the broader up 47.07 points at 20.386.03.

Latest data from online property website Rightmove showed the first fall in UK house prices this year with the average price of property coming to market down to £365,173 – down 1.3%.

However, Tim Bannister, Rightmove’s director of property science, says: “A drop in asking prices is to be expected this month after a frenzied two years and many would-be home movers become distracted by the summer holidays.”

“Indeed, for those that can, this may be their first summer holiday abroad since before the pandemic.”

Bannister also pointed out that price growth for the year would still be 7%.

The number of properties currently on the market to buy is down 39% on pre-pandemic levels but despite the lack of instructions new listings rose 12% compared to the same time last year but were down 6% compared to 2019.

Bannister also said the recent interest rate increases by the Bank of England were “not having a significant impact on the number of people wanting to move.”

7.30am: FTSE 100 seen higher

London markets are expected to open higher on Monday following gains in the US on Friday and following the surprise news that China has cut a key interest rate, in a bid to boost its stuttering economy, following weaker than expected retail sales and industrial output figures.

Investors will also have one eye on UK jobs and inflation reports due out later this week to see whether there are signs of a slowdown in the jobs market or in prices growth.

Spread betting companies are calling the FTSE 100 up by around 35 points.

Michael Hewson chief market analyst at CMC Markets UK said: “Despite the slow drip feed of negative headlines of rising gas prices, and the supply chain challenges thrown up by the heatwave in Europe, there’s been little appetite to drive stocks lower in recent weeks.”

“Asia markets have got off to a positive start to the week, with the latest retail sales and industrial production numbers for China showing an economy that still appears low on confidence when it comes to consumer spending, and economic activity more broadly.”

“This weakness in the Chinese economy comes against the struggle to adapt to a zero-covid policy, which the government shows little sign of relaxing, against a backdrop of rising cases.”

“Problems in the property sector also aren’t helping, where many home buyers are halting mortgage payments in protest at delays to the completion of new homes.”

“In June we saw the effects the zero-covid policy has had on the Chinese economy, with a -2.6% contraction for Q2, although we have started to see some signs of a pick-up in economic activity, albeit from a very low base.”

“This morning’s retail sales numbers for July have confirmed how fragile this confidence still is, rising 2.7% well below expectations of 5%, and weaker than in June.”

“Industrial production has been more robust and recovered much better, however even here economic activity disappointed in July, slipping back from 3.9% in June, to 3.8%.”

In London, on a quieter day for company results, Phoenix Group announced half year figures which showed strong cash generation of £950mln against £872mln in the six months to June 2021.

The FTSE 100-listed closed book life insurer, said it was now confident of delivering at the top-end of its £1.3bn-to-£1.4bn target range for the year.

New business long-term cash generation was a record £430mln in the period and more than double the first half of 2021 at £206mln.

7.00am: FTSE 100 set to open higher

FTSE 100 set to start the week in positive fashion following gains in the US on Friday.

Spread betting companies are calling the blue chip index up by around 32 points.

The closed Friday up 424 points, 1.3%, at 33,761, the jumped 267 points, 2.1%, to 13,047 and the S&P 500 added 73 points, 1.7%, to reach 4,280.

The benchmarks ended the week on a high note, clinching the fourth-straight winning week for the Nasdaq Composite and S&P 500. Investors have reacted positively to CPI and PPI data released this week that suggested inflation may have already peaked.

Read more on Proactive Investors UK

DisclaimerAVEPp 0.00% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio ROG -1.66% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio RHHVF -1.31% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio SNY +1.82% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio AZN +0.56% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio SASY +0.55% Add to/Remove from a Portfolio

By Scott Kanowsky

Investing.com -- Sanofi SA (EPA: ) shares slid on Wednesday after the French drugmaker announced that it will halt trials of a new treatment for patients battling advanced breast cancer.

In a statement, the company said it would stop global clinical development of the medicine, known as amcenestrant, after a phase 3 study showed it was not effective enough to warrant further research.

All other studies of amcenestrant, including in early-stage breast cancer, will also be discontinued, Sanofi added.

“While we are disappointed by this outcome, our research will further the scientific understanding of endocrine therapies in people with breast cancer," said John Reed, global head of research and development at Sanofi.

In a note, analysts at Morgan Stanley called the decision a "setback for the innovation narrative" put forward by Sanofi, saying that amcenestrant had been flagged as a potentially lucrative piece in the group's drug pipeline.

The end of Sanofi's amcenestrant trials is expected to lead to a 6% negative impact on the company's estimated discounted cash flow, according to the Morgan Stanley analysts.

The decision could also have a knock-on effect on studies being conducted on similar breast cancer drugs from Sanofi rivals Roche (SIX: ) and AstraZeneca PLC (LON: ), the analysts added.